do you want to know the five traits of
marketing Legends then stay tuned
[Music]
hey I'm Sam Dunning co-owner
choiceuk.com and host the top 100 B2B
marketing podcast business growth show
and if you haven't yet check out my
weekly emails where I share actionable
B2B marketing website SEO tips useful
podcasts goodies and more you can give
it a shot over at businessgrowth.email
so after being in B2B websites SEO and
marketing for the last 10 to 12 years
I've had my fair share of failures and
learnings plus interviewing some 300
plus guest marketing experts on business
growth show I've managed to steal some
super learnings all things marketing and
I want to share five of the top traits I
believe that's going to help make you a
marketing Legend let's Dive In
so the first trait is they think like
the founder or the CEO of the business
and what I mean by that is they really
care about the outcomes they bring so in
my opinion this might sound harsh but if
you're working in an organization and
you don't care about either the offer
the product the solution itself or the
results or impact it has on your
customers and clients then what's the
point you're not really going to have
any kind of passion towards the product
or service or the results it brings
is going to affect the work you do so
that is very important in my opinion now
moving this forward thinking like the
CEO thinking like the founder what I
mean is you understand the metrics they
care about whether that's driving
Revenue building the brand building the
customer base keeping happy customers
telling the Brand Story or something
else you understand what's important to
your leadership team and you work to
bring those results it's almost having
an entrepreneurial Spirit and the great
thing about doing this for your own
business is you're going to see growth
or if you work part for part of a
company then you're going to help them
see growth it's going to encourage
you to get your own promotions within
marketing to earn more cash yourself
bring more value and growth to business
and it's going to help everyone all
around when you care when you really
think like the founder or the CEO and
take that mindset and drive build that
passion to actually bring results all
round
trait two is their revenue driven cash
is King nothing happens really in
business until something is sold and the
cash hits the bank let's be honest so
what I mean is the best marketers I've
met they put Revenue driving activities
first so they understand what's going to
have the short-term impact of Revenue
flow whether that's for example paid
advertisement of some sort they
understand the impact that Organics can
have on the mid to longer term so they
put those activities into play and
perhaps put on back burner activities
that may be nice to have so once they've
got the short and long-term activities
flowing that are going to drive Revenue
then you can build on some of the nice
to have so you really understand what
impact is this going to have in a short
medium long term on Revenue you can then
explain that to your leadership team you
can then get buy-in for perhaps more
organic channels channels that are going
to take longer and you can really
understand exactly how the business
Works how cash is acquired and how
you're going to hit those Revenue
targets so you know your numbers inside
out so you can actually be a valuable
asset to your organization
and the third trait is using data as
well as gut fill so on the data side of
things it makes sense to measure
everything you can so for example with
your website perhaps you measure your
analytics understanding how many
visitors the website gets per day week
month quarter year Etc how long those
visitors stay in terms of their session
times on your site main Pages they visit
the main pages that convert well how
many demo requests how many leads you're
getting each day week month year Etc how
many of those demos go to opportunities
to then go to closed one Revenue what
are the top performing channels I.E
organic search paid search review sites
referral traffic social LinkedIn email
Etc and understanding which are the top
performing and the lower performing ones
but then likewise understanding that not
everything can be measured I.E
communities whether that's online or
actual in-person events whether it's
dark social when people are talking
about your company or your or
recommending you in channels that can't
be measured I.E slack groups Facebook
Chat LinkedIn Messengers
Etc and on the gut feel side of things
if you've seen positive signals that
something might work or other companies
are perhaps having success and actually
going out and testing those things for
yourself and seeing if they do
Trade four is they build for buyers so
this is something that's so crucial in
marketing for example I talk about this
a lot with websites they often get built
for the CEO or the internal marketing
team on what they personally think looks
good when ultimately you're not the one
buying your product or service but your
ideal client is the one you want to buy
at so why not build everything out for
them so that's why it's so important to
know your idle customers problems their
frustrations their common pain points
their aspirations the type of language
they use and their main goals so you can
craft everything for them from your
messaging
from the website design the main Pages
the way you talk the words you use to
make sure you're not using jargon but
you're actually using words they
understand and they use on a day-to-day
to make sure everything hits home
everything resonates with those ideal
clients so you're crafting for them
right from your website headline
messaging
ad copy
your blog articles if you're producing a
podcast if you're producing YouTube if
you're producing different forms of
media that's perhaps going to go out on
LinkedIn ads everything is built with a
buyer in mind you're directly talking to
their problems
you're directly talking to their goals
their aspirations where they want to get
to because you've interviewed your
target clients you know what they care
about you're building for them it's
going to help your sales team it's going
to help your marketing team and it's
going to help your Revenue because it's
actually going to attract those Target
clients because you're speaking directly
to them rather than guessing and trying
to think you know what they're talking
about when actually you don't
and at number five last but definitely
not least is they run regular
experiments so experiments are super fun
but they're also a great way to improve
your personal experience so if you're a
marketer as part of an organization I'd
highly recommend you run some marketing
on the side as a side gig or a side
project whether that's something like
setting up your own blog setting up your
own Ecom website or B2B little site or
maybe a podcast or video series so you
can get hands-on experience in a project
see how it goes get some failures get
some winnings maybe make a little bit of
money on the side show your team or show
your Future Organization you've actually
managed to build something from the
ground up and get some results and some
learnings from because that kind of
hands-on experience is so valuable but
moving this to a business standpoint as
well experiments are crucial because if
you just do the same thing if you're
doing the same tactics strategies
channels for your business each and
every month your business is just going
to see a flat line in terms of Revenue
or maybe even dip when the market
changes whereas if you're trying new
things out
then you could see results so what I
mean by that is experiments so for
example web Choice a couple experiments
we're running right now at the time
recording are cold calling cold email
YouTube shorts and Tick Tock shorts with
podcasts and solo podcast Clips
essentially we go in with a set time
frame I.E we're going to give this 3 6
12 months this is roughly what we think
it will generate this is the amount of
time or resource or spend we're going to
put into it
and if we don't see an outcome positive
Revenue by this stage then we'll ditch
it and we'll move on to something else
whereas if we do see positive signals
results income Revenue then we ramp up
spend so it's not really a lose-lose if
you if things don't go well you've
learned from it you can move on to the
next channel for the next experiment if
it works excellent let's invest more
time resource or budget into it and
let's scale it up because if you're not
running these things and like I say your
business can stand flat and not make
growth and from a personal level it can
really build on your own hands-on
experience which is almost invaluable
and there you have it I hope you found
these five traits that make up a
marketing Legend of use as always if you
enjoyed it a quick rating or review on
Spotify or apple podcasts is very much
appreciated or if you're on YouTube a
quick subscribe goes a very long way and
with that I'll catch you on the next
episode
cheers